Bowson: The Cave
of Trials was created
by the God of Humanity.
It's a mystical vault,
containing every
spell and magical item
used to battle
the forces of evil.
Queen Flora had this fort
built above the cavern because
she believed we would eventually
need to use what lies within.
So why is the cave of
a God full of monsters?
Bowson: The King of Teran has
provided us with a book; this.
It's a history of the region
that gives us some insight.
It seems the gods did
not approve of
humans wielding
more power than they'd
proven themselves
worthy of handling.
We don't know how far
down the labyrinth goes,
but the deeper levels
are said to hold
the more powerful spells.
Down there, the paths
become more complex,
the traps are more dangerous,
and at the lowest levels,
even more terrifying
creatures await.
All to say, it's not a place
for the inexperienced.
But... the only
way to bind with
the Kaglimmer spell
is to brave it.
Popp: Pretty wild.
Who would have thought
that such a place
would exist in Carl Kingdom?
Ah-ha, here we go.
There's a page on the spell.
"By casting in a group,
users of the Kaglimmer
can multiply its power.
For maximum effect,
arrange Mysticite
crystals at five points
around the circle of
enchantment."
Well, then...
I guess it's a good thing we've
got five Disciples of Avan, huh?
I've got to say,
I don't like this plan.
Leona's not a warrior -
she's, like, a normal girl.
And more importantly,
the princess of Papnica.
She shouldn't have to
take such a big risk...
Maybe somebody else could go.
Enough. She is
perfectly capable.
Do not dismiss her.
Women can risk their lives
to fight for what they
believe in, as well.
But, Lady Amy... I don't think
Dai is trying to say otherwise.
Lady Amy: Huh?
If Leona becomes
a Disciple of Avan...
that means she'll
have to face
the Dark King's
terrifying powers up close.
Yeah. Honestly, it is
kind of overwhelming.
I really don't think any
of us would face him again
if we had the choice.
Lady Amy: Fair enough.
I see where you're
coming from, Dai...
But please; just try to
understand that this was
the Princess's choice -
and it's her fight, as well.
Maam: Right.
And not to mention...
there's already a girl
who's fighting the Dark King,
and she's saved you
a bunch... Right, Dai?
[giggling]
Well, maybe you're
the exception.
[excited chatter]
L-Leona.
Popp [thought]: She's
supposed to fight in that?!
This garment...
is a Robe of Carl.
The fabric can repel Malice.
We'll require a
couple of guards.
Merle: Wait, Your Majesty...
Please, will you
take me with you?
I'm no fighter, but my
clairvoyance could be useful
when navigating the labyrinth.
And if I can help all of you,
I'll take my chances.
Please, let me try.
Very well. You may
come along, Merle.
Thank you, Queen Flora.
Now, we still need one more.
I can...
Right here!
I'll escort you, ladies.
You can count on me.
You'd do that?
Popp: This cave sounds
like a nasty place.
It would be way too dangerous
to let you go in alone.
[giggle]
[pained groan]
If you ask me, that look on
your face is more dangerous.
How about I go
with you instead?
That sounds great.
It might be fun-
for the two of us to finally
share the battlefield.
Good. Then that
makes our party.
You two will need to change
into the Robes as well.
Oh, man...
I'll see you soon, okay?
Leona...
What, you still
don't trust me?
I can do whatever
I set my mind to.
Haven't I always...
since we first met?
[chuckling]
Huh? What is it?
I was just remembering
when we met. Sorry.
Leona: Oh, you forgot?
Where are you going?
Dai: To keep on training!
With everything that's
about to happen...
I need to know
I can back you up
when we face the
Dark King together!
Alright.
Let's use this time to train -
and become even better warriors!
[cheering]
Nova.
Yes?
I have... a favor
to ask of you.
Merle: Hey, Maam?
Don't you think you're being
a little too hard on Popp?
Maam: I thought
I was going easy.
It's like he doesn't understand
what's at stake here.
If this fails,
the world could end.
Flora: I'm sure
the Kaglimmer will be
strong enough to
disarm Vearn Palace.
But as the book says,
the spell will be most
effective if the five of you
use your Insignias
to focus its power.
That's something else
I'm worried about.
Avan never taught
us how to use them.
And if I can't pull it off,
all I've got are my
Healing-type spells.
All right, hold the Insignia
of Avan in your hand.
Then breathe...
close your eyes,
and concentrate on the
people we're trying to save.
Maam [thought]:
Hyunckel... Crocodine...
Th-The Insignia... Why is it
glowing red like that?
Flora: That is the color
of you soul's energy, Maam.
My soul's energy...
Flora: The Great
Purification Spell
requires more
than just Magic Power.
It is a matter of intention;
of the user's will
to overcome great evil.
The Mysticite-
it can respond to that
will and even amplify it.
That light is the proof
of your intention...
And the true
source of your power
is your pure
and loving heart.
My "loving heart"?
Your caring instinct,
and empathy for others...
This is where your true
abilities really come from.
Avan always believed
that such qualities were
far more valuable
than strength and skill.
And he only ever granted
his Insignia to people
whose souls were worthy
of protecting the world.
This means that Dai,
Popp, and Hyunckel
should all have qualities of
their own which will cause
the Mysticite to glow
a different color...
A color that represents
each of their souls.
Leona. You have one, too.
The spell needs
the five of you-
otherwise our plan
is never going to work.
Popp [thought]: Whoa.
A unique color for
each of our souls, huh?
I wonder what color
mine will glow...
Popp [thought]:
What... Nothing?
I don't get it.
Maam got hers to light up
and it seemed like
she wasn't even trying!
Popp [thought]:
You're kidding me...
I can't even get it
to light up a little!
C'mon, glow!
Just a little spark...
Maam: Who's there?
Merle: Maam,
is something wrong?
I thought I sensed
somebody out here.
It would be just like Popp to
spy on us through the keyhole.
It doesn't make any sense...
There's gotta be
some way to make it work!
What's the matter with me?
If I don't get this to glow,
then I'll let everybody down.
I can't let that happen.
So then, what gives?
I mean, Avan picked me
to be one of his Disciples
just like Maam...
Like Maam...
You know I can't, but
someday you'll understand.
And until that day comes,
I want you to
hold onto this for me.
Popp [thought]:
Could this be...
Could this be
because Dai and I
got our Insignias before
we completed our training?
We never graduated
the way that
Maam and Hyunckel did.
Does that mean...
Am I... Am I unworthy of
being a Disciple of Avan?
No way... No way!
That can't be possible.
Not after everything
I've overcome to get here.
I just need to find a way
to make this thing glow.
There is a way.
I'll prove you were right
about me, Master Avan!
This Ancient Tome
was written by a Sage
who explored the Cave
of Trials long ago...
And they included a map.
So, Kaglimmer... How deep do
we have to go to find it?
Twenty-five levels down.
In comparison, the Glimmer
spell that Avan obtained...
was only fifteen down.
Maam: You mean,
we're going even deeper
than Master Avan ever did?
There's no time to waste.
We have thirty hours left
to rescue our comrades.
We will need ten of
those to prepare and
get to where Hyunckel
and Crocodine are held.
That leaves us with twenty
to search the cavern.
Flora: Frizz.
This candle's light
will magically burn
for ten hours or so.
Then, once it goes out,
we should start heading
back to the surface.
Now, I can cast Evac, a spell
for escaping dungeons...
but it will not
work inside this cave.
Flora: The Malice in its walls
interferes with enchantments,
and we have no
way to repel it.
Therefore, we must assume our
return trip will take ten hours.
Are you saying
if we can't make it
all the way down
in that time,
we'll have to give up on
the Kaglimmer spell?
Yes. We'll come
back to the surface
and try to save Hyunckel
and Crocodine without it.
Although...
this map and Merle's
abilities give us an advantage.
As long as we're careful
about the monsters,
we should make good time.
All right, come along.
Let's get moving.
It sure is creepy down here.
Maam: Seriously. It seems
like it goes on forever.
I can sense quite a few
dangerous Auras lurking below.
Large ones, too.
Wait, Maam - you shouldn't...
What? This dress
keeps flapping around.
I'm going to trip on it.
Merle: It's not proper...
Take it easy, Merle.
This is no...
"preppy" royal banquet.
But it's a bad
influence on Popp.
Don't you see this sort
of thing is exactly
what gets his mind
in the gutter.
Wait. Are you joking?
I think Popp was born with
his mind in the gutter.
[sighing]
Merle: That's not true.
Leona [thought]: Oh, yeah.
This mission is
going spectacularly.
It's not a picnic, girls.
Focus. We're about to
reach the first level.
Slimes: [chirping]
Slimes!
Alright.
[chirping]
Well, they might be weak,
but fighting off
this many of them
is going to
take us forever.
Flora: I said we don't
have any time to waste.
Let's keep moving.
Maam: By the way, what spell can
we learn on the first level?
Merle: The tome says
"Safe Passage."
Oh, we can skip that.
I already know it.
We'll skip all of them.
Kaglimmer is the one we need.
It's the priority.
Popp [thought]: Huh.
Nova's giving him
a hand with his training.
Dai's the only other one
who got his Insignia
before he was ready.
I wonder if his will light up?
Oh, yeah -
that's more like it.
It seems like you've gotten
over yourself, have you?
I can't be moping
around anymore.
King Vearn won't get
the better of me twice.
No matter how minor...
all of my skills will be at
their best in this fight.
And then - he goes
down for good!
Here we go!
Popp [thought]: Oh, no!
Then it's just me...
I'm the only one
who can't do it.
Popp [thought]: I have
to do something, and quick.
I'm running out of time.
Good. That covers the basics.
From here, we'll base your
training on the Book of Avan.
Great!
Popp: I'll push myself...
I'll do it. I can do it!
The deeper we go - the
stronger the monsters will be.
That's what the
ancient tome says.
Well, I'm not sensing any more
of them on this level. For now.
Flora: The next staircase
shouldn't be too far.
What is it?
It's a vase!
Look at this thing.
I wonder what's inside.
Flora: Whatever it is, it's
not what we're after. Come on.
Huh?! What?! But it
might be useful?
Avan Strash!
Yes! I can do it.
I can use them both!
That was the projectile type,
right? What's it called?
Let's see. Okay, so...
according to the Book of Avan,
there are two types
of Avan Strash.
Nova: The Arrow-Type,
where you strike your
enemy from a distance,
using only a slash of Aura...
And the Break-Type,
where you use the full force
of your Aura for a direct hit.
Arrow and Break, huh?
"Each type has its advantage
as well as its disadvantage.
The Arrow Type can
be unleashed quickly,
but it has a weaker impact.
The Break Type
is more powerful,
and still has
reasonable speed,
but it takes much longer
to unleash each attack."
Each battle is different and
will ask a different
skill of you-
the user must have
quick judgement...
and keen situational awareness
of one's environment."
That's all it says.
I see. I've been
using it all this time
without thinking
about any of that.
If I'd known,
I probably could've
fought more efficiently.
It's kind of embarrassing.
Nova: No need
to be embarrassed.
Watch this.
What?
I know how to strike
using Aura Blade.
It's no Avan Strash but
it projects Aura, as well.
Do you see?
As adept as I am
with this type of move,
I still struggle to
hit the smallest target...
And timing the
whole thing out,
so that it detonates at
the moment of impact-
can be a chore.
Aura attacks are
very advanced.
My guess is, even Sir
Avan didn't expect you
to master the Avan
Strash so quickly.
And that's why he
never got around to
explaining the different
types of Strash to you.
Yeah. You must be right.
But still, if I... only
knew how to read, well then,
I could have learned
that for myself back when
Matoriv first gave us
the Book of Avan.
Well, that's
definitely on you.
But... now you know,
and that's the only thing
that really matters here.
All that's left for you
to do is practice it.
So just don't waste
your time, Dai.
Dai: I owe you one, Nova.
No, no. Save your thanks
for Princess Leona.
Huh?
Nova: She's the one
who asked me to help.
You can tell her
if she makes it back.
She will. There's
no doubt about it.
You really believe in her.
Well, Leona...
She always succeeds in
whatever she sets her mind to.
Always has.
[screeching]
[snarling]
[exasperated sigh]
Oh, come on, Leona!
Didn't I tell you not to open
the treasure chests
down here? Huh?
[bashful chuckle]
I couldn't help it.
It seems like such a waste
to ignore them completely.
Girl, gimme a break.
I bet you also buy
mountains of stuff
whenever you go
shopping, don't you?
But, umm, that's the
whole point of shopping.
And considering
where we are,
I thought we might
find a weapon
that could save
the world or something.
Was I wrong?
Flora: What have
we found so far?
A pair of Cypress Sticks and
two-hundred and sixteen gold.
And we're definitely
not going to
save the world with
either, Princess.
Okay, fine. I get it.
Onward it is then,
right? Away we go!
Almost at ten hours...
We're taking too long.
We're eighteen floors down.
That's nowhere close.
We should start thinking
about heading back up.
I didn't expect that we'd be
stopping at every
level on the way.
Princess Leona...
Wait a minute!
Leona: Ugh! What?
What am I doing
wrong this time?
Oh... No... I mean,
it's not that.
Leona: Well, then?
What is it?
Go on, Merle. It's all right.
Just tell us what's wrong.
It's a... feeling.
Or a premonition...
Whatever it is,
s-spit it out!
It's this floor...
Merle: If we stay in
one place for too long...
I think it might collapse.
[worried breaths]
Head back to
the stairs. Hurry!
Hey, Merle...
Y-Yes?
Next time that you get a
feeling, tell me to shut up!
Yep!
Narrator: Thanks to
his training with Nova,
Dai discovers a new attack
with more potential
than ever before.
Meanwhile, Popp grows
even more desperate
when his Insignia of
Avan refuses to glow.
In the Cave of Trials,
Leona's party reach
the twenty-fifth level,
where the key to the
Kaglimmer spell awaits,
but what dangers
are lurking nearby?
Find out next time on
Dragon Quest:
The Adventure of Dai,
"The Sacred Inheritance".